How to avoid test caching for golang projects (#65)
cybertec-postgresql/today-i-learned-content: posts/TEMPLATE/index.md

---
date: 2030-12-31 # Auto updates on publish.
title: How to turn off test caching for golang!
author: pavlo.golub@cybertec.at
tags: ["golang", "test", "pg_timetable"] # max. 10 tags; lowercase; dash-separated
description: "Testing Golang projects you sometimes can see that test results are cached, meaning they are not executed since no source files changes were applied. However, your test cases might depend on environment they are running on, just like our `pg_timetable` scheduler depends on `PostgreSQL` database" # max. 300 chars.
---

> Testing goland projects you sometimes can see that test results are cached, meaning they are not executed since no source files changes were applied. However, sometimes your test cases depend on environment they are runnin on, just like our 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When testing Golang projects you'll notice that test results are cached for as long as their corresponding source files remain unchanged. This is generally advantageous, unless your test cases behave differently depending on the environment that they are running in, just like our 
```

> [pg_timetable](https://github.com/cybertec-postgresql/pg_timetable) scheduler depends on `PostgreSQL` database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[pg_timetable](https://github.com/cybertec-postgresql/pg_timetable) scheduler depends on a `PostgreSQL` database.
```

Before `Go 1.12` the known solution was to use `GOCACHE=off` environment variable, e.g.

```
$ GOCACHE=off go test ./internal/pgengine -v
```

However [starting](https://tip.golang.org/doc/go1.12#gocache) from `Go 1.12` this leads to the error:
```
$ GOCACHE=off go test ./internal/pgengine -v
build cache is disabled by GOCACHE=off, but required as of Go 1.12
```

> As a solution one may clean cache explicitely before running tests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a solution one may clear the build cache explicitly before running tests:
```

```
$ go clean -cache
```

> Or clean only test cache:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Or only clean the test cache:
```
